so probably one of the main changes that
has happened is as you can tell from my
youtube channel it's back to my name
it was with my name and my
ex-girlfriend's name
but we have since broken up and we won't
be obviously making videos together
anymore
um for the last part of our relationship
the last year of our relationship we
were in an open relationship
which is a whole other story that i
won't get into right now
during that time i met someone else um
as can easily happen in open
relationships
and we were open to that possibility of
meeting other people falling in love
with other people that kind of thing
and that's basically what happened so i
met someone else i fell in love and
i am very very happy and um
you know i feel like yeah sometimes life
just
surprises you i never thought that was
gonna happen but
i don't know what else to say about this
i don't know what else to say
in the year 2020 it has become common
knowledge
that the gold rush on youtube
has already come and gone it was not
obvious to anyone
during that gold rush while it unfolded
that that's what it was and that's all
it was
now i lived in laos small
poverty-stricken country in southeast
asia
during a literal gold rush when the
government
briefly had a huge amount of money from
gold
and copper mining and i remember talking
to people
mostly government officials in a
communist country
a huge percentage the population or
government officials telling them face
to face
look you've got this one mountain that's
full of gold and copper
how many mountains like that do you
think you have like
this this is not gonna last just five
years from now this is going to be
over and you're going to be back to
being a hopeless poverty-stricken
country
and the gold is gone and the copper is
gone and you've cut down
all the forests and what's the future
for poverty-stricken laos it's very
rare to have the detachment during a
gold rush
while all that prosperity and optimism
is surrounding you
to be the voice of reason and say this
too will pass
okay what's over two aspects of
it very briefly one
when you look at the rise and fall of
someone like maddie lindberner
who was completely and consciously
stepping into the shoes of durianrider
and freely that's not a conspiracy
theory she repeatedly
met up with cooperated with collaborated
with and took advice and direction
from durianrider and freely themselves
they knew each other quite well
personally she modeled her early videos
and her video career
on durian writer and freely
the idea that you could get
two million views and
quite a lot of money from filming
yourself walking around
in your underwear in lingerie or in a
bikini
on youtube that's over
in a more subtle and profound way the
potential to reach a large audience
with challenging and unconventional
ideas is also
over even though the numbers of people
being reached might have been
far fewer than 2 million per video i
have a very clear memory now
of about four years ago maybe three and
a half years ago
when melissa and i were first getting
together i was teaching her a lot about
talking to her a lot about the
assassination of both jfk
and rfk just happened to be something
she really had not grown up
knowing about at all um she wasn't quite
born into the right generation for
conspiracy theories one more the other
and you know i was saying to her well
look some of the conspiracy some of the
conspiracy theories are crazy but the
real history is very interesting and the
real history is not
what you were told in your high school
history textbook so to speak
you know and so unpacking that and while
we were having those discussions i was
googling around and checking what was
available on youtube
um and at that time there was a lot
there was a lot of
really quality information that came up
just doing a quick
search within youtube for rfk
assassination
and uh specific things related to the
jfk assassination
that perspective those types of voices
today are gone i'm not going to make the
claim that youtube has actually
deleted those videos or suppressed those
videos or completely eradicated those
youtube channels i wouldn't presume that
but you can't find them by searching
within youtube you can't find them with
a google search
they have been in effect removed from
public view
now if you go on to the right discussion
forum on reddit or something
maybe there people can share these links
maybe the information is still being
spread or maybe it's just on websites
other than youtube but these are two
overlapping sorts of opportunities
that existed on youtube in 2016
and do not exist in the year 2020 right
so the one hand there was the
opportunity to exploit sexuality
or other salacious content to reach a
large audience and then on the other
hand
there was the possibility of presenting
thought-provoking
challenging unorthodox ideas about
politics about history about health
all kinds of matters and reaching a
relatively large audience
people like freelee and durianrider were
doing both
i mean the sex appeal the 90 nudity
was a huge part of freelee's ascent of
fame a huge part of maddie
limburn's ascent of fame and the idea
that you could find
an audience for a niche message that
might indeed be contradicted by
university textbooks or high school
texts might be quite at odds with
um mainstream conventional wisdom might
be quite challenging or unsettling
and that people would come to youtube in
order to hear that perspective
people would come to youtube to hear
something about the assassination of rfk
and the assassin
assassination of jfk that they would not
hear
on nbc news on cnn or on not even on
on hbo right and when you look at the
career
of james aspy and his collaboration for
several years with carly taylor
again it was a bit of both
it was trying to pursue money and fame
where those two things
overlapped it was very actively and very
self-consciously exploiting the sex
appeal
of james aspie it was very actively and
very self-consciously exploiting the sex
appeal
of carly taylor and they took it as far
as they could take it
but in the years 2018 2019 and now 2020
the potential there was much diminished
i'd say it's exponentially less
than it was in 2016 in many many ways
that opportunity
is now completely utterly over
for better and for worse right i was out
here lamenting
the rise of lifestyle activism i was out
here making really serious warnings
about where this type of permanent
vacation
activism was going to lead us as a
movement just as individuals what what
what is we're brainwashing ourselves
into
there were disadvantages there were
advantages
also because even though there may have
been some crazy crackpot videos about
the assassination of jfk rk
i really appreciate that i as an already
educated person i could sift through
that
and i could find really valuable
discussions i remember a really valuable
discussion
just getting into the ballistics of the
rfk assassination which
bullets matched which guns you could
find really great
information on youtube let's say four
years ago
and today you can't today it's
over and all of the potential for
education
and mutual intellectual stimulation and
new political movements and
organizations and activism emerging from
it
is over i sympathize with james aspie
he is someone who came onto youtube with
one story to tell
and one story only right
he had cancer he became a drug addict
he became vegan it improved his life
there is one narrative that he has
performed on youtube
again and again and again but you can't
have a career
in just that same story being told
to that limited extent i sympathize with
james aspy
just because he is somebody who tried to
monetize his life story
but with his life story having been told
and having appeared on numerous talk
shows and numerous podcasts and numerous
interviews with the press
by that same token from that point
forward
he is a has been his career is over
and that's the sense in which social
media
doesn't make activists of us all
but it makes creative artists of us
all at some point you run out of a life
story
to tell and the question is now
what story is worth telling